So what can you do with this information?
You may learn new things about the audience that's attracted to your site and you can
evaluate some of that information against
the target persona you have in mind for the site.
Is what you're finding aligned with the target?
It looks like the main affinity categories found among
users of the Google Merchandise Stores are technophiles,
movie buffs, photography enthusiasts,
news junkies, and mobile enthusiasts.
So then you want to ask yourself whether this
aligns with the type of person you are targeting with the store.
Given that the merchandise store focuses on brand enthusiasts
for all of Google brands including Android and YouTube,
it seems pretty much like this is aligning with the user's Google would hope to attract.
I can also use this information to learn something about who I may want to advertise to.
For instance, I'm finding out that the people that
visit the merchandise store like movies.
So maybe I can advertise on movie related sites.
So here's where you find the interest data in Google Analytics.
Under the interests, you find different reports.
Affinity categories; this gives you an overview of the affinities of your audience.
What is it that your users seem interested based on their browsing behavior?
These are relatively broad interest categories like technophiles.
These exact same categories are used in AdWords.
So you can use this report to understand which categories of
people are on your site and then use AdWords to advertise to them.
Then there's in market segments.
These are groups of people that look like they're ready to buy a product.
Here you will find categories related to different kinds of products.
People who are ready to buy an airline ticket, for example.
So these people are already a little further along in the customer journey.
Lastly, we have the other categories.
These are even more granular interest categories
like people who are into soccer for example.
Note that none of these categories are exclusive.
A user can belong to several categories at once.
I may be a technophile and also be a movie lover.